By the way,
I just started recording so I can capture
the notes. By the way, love the scenarios.
What I did is I took the scenarios that
were written so well,
put it in Copilot and said hey Copilot,
can you write it in PG durable?
So what I want to do for like the next 10
minutes,
just kind of get your opinion on kind of.
Of the shape of the product in your sense,
cuz what we have right now is we have PG
Hmm.
Durable,
but the way you seem to give people
advice is maybe through Azure Advisor or
maybe even White Glove.
So I'm just wondering what makes sense
for customers.
No.
So let's say we start with scenario one,
right?
What we have to do is this is your
definition of scenario one, right?
Identify out of vacuum blockers,
resolve blockers, run vacuum, right?
This is what it will look like in and
this is all just gonna go full code.
I took basically everything you had there.
No.
First it it like wrote the prerequisite
script.
So this is the script you had to find the
blockers so it it runs.
I think you put this in the word file and
then it checks all the sources like you
mentioned and then basically the way it
works with the auto vacuum is what PG
Yep.
durable does is it creates 2 tables.
One is a table to track all the blockers
and another table is to do all the the
Remedies.
remediation logs.
And then you can see here this is PG
durable.
So like DF start basically starts the
pipeline.
Hmm.
And then this squiggly thing is a
sequence flow,
so like this is the first block,
so step one.
Yeah.
Yeah, that Pino explained me last time,
yeah.
OK, perfect.
So like I'm guessing my kind of thing to
you is like do you think customers would
do this or are you saying this is
something we give to customers like
define these three blocks,
you can see how?
That is the,
that is the that is a very good question.
This is where I am stuck because some of
these things customers may not be
comfortable doing it,
but this is something they would like to
OK.
see. Hey,
this is what it is because we are
Yeah.
ultimately for example the terminating of
a session.
Right.
We're telling them to terminate a session
which they may not like.
They may want to see what really is
Yeah.
running and they terminate on their own,
right.
So that's a challenge that we always have
in this space.
OK.
Like what do we like replication slot.
He may say, hey,
I know there is a replication slot,
but my.
I'm not consuming from the slot.
I will do it tomorrow.
My application is down for example, right?
If there is a logical replication slot,
Yeah.
OK.
it's a very valid scenario that we have
seen. So yeah, so.
We may have to surface it in a way and
then if they take the action then we can
go and do the vacuum analysis one way or
we say we can perfectly do everything for
you. It's about you, you know,
using this extension and using this
features.
Well, like,
what would that shape be like in the
sense of like we have a few options,
right?
Yep.
The only option we have for visualizing
is to say VS code.
Yeah.
So you tell this cord of customers, hey,
open VS code, right?
Yeah.
Run this you would you tell them run this
pipeline or would you say hey here's the
code,
copy and paste it in and tweak what you
want.
Like, what do you do today?
We give them the scripts for them to go
ahead and do it. If you're, yeah.
Oh, you give them the scripts.
So if you really ask me,
that's what we do. So we also have,
OK.
for example,
the troubleshooting guides that we did in
OK.
the portal.
So those troubleshooting guides will
OK.
point to.
These things,
but there is a bunch of commentary
OK.
written down that saying that you need to
do this if you find this in this in our
thing.
Gotcha. And it's like blocks of.
Do you have that code?
So yeah.
Like is it like similar to these blocks?
No, not similar to this.
We have written it down.
OK.
Basically it's like, hey,
if you need to do this kind of thing,
there's no blocks of code there,
but it's more like, hey,
OK.
you need to do like this step on that
step, those kind of things.
Gotcha. Like what you wrote in the doc.
Correct, correct. That's correct.
OK.
I have a quick quick question I I one one
aspect that I missed in your scenarios
and maybe pertains here is is there kind
of like a a reporting regular reporting
aspect that is separate from applying the
the fixes?
So yeah, I got your point Pino.
So how do we?
But you know, actually, yeah.
So it all depends on what Abbey is asking.
How do we surface this right?
Do we surface them saying that you hey
you you have these problems in the server
which we are already doing in
troubleshooting guides today and we are
also already doing it in Azure Advisor
today for example these are.
The two places we are already doing this,
do we surface those and or tell them that
you can go here,
see and if you still think those are
still good, we can do it for you.
This is another way of like, you know,
automating this.
But I'm just trying to find Azure advisor
so so I can understand where that what it
Yeah.
Yeah, this is one. If you go here,
there'll be another advisor. Yeah,
looks like.
if there is something here,
it'll pop up here.
Abe related to performance.
I don't know if there is something here
for see PG audit log statement for
example. This is one of them.
So this I've not given yet,
but there was another thing.
OK.
Can you go back?
I think this might be a bad one for our
Oh, oops.
scenario.
Oh, OK.
Good old Azure. Nice and slow. OK,
let me just try that again.
All right, there you go.
Yeah,
what was PG audit log log file retention,
restrict public access.
I think that is the only one that is
coming in your case. OK,
you're in the first,
you're in the first one,
first one you can see for example.
This one.
That's the first one for example.
OK.
Again,
this is something all the logging we can
put under one umbrella which I've not
given yet. For example in PG audit,
if someone has put everything,
they started logging everything.
So what we have seen in the past is that
unknowingly some customers do that and
then.
Additional logs create higher CPU
utilization on the server.
OK.
Uh.
So they may really don't. Yeah,
I don't know what is happening here.
Yeah.
All right, let's try this again.
It's slow today.
We can also go to Scroll down there.
Yeah.
So let me show one server for this one
also for troubleshooting guides what we
have today, right?
Help.
Uh,
troubleshooting guides that shows all
these scenarios there also.
Yeah, where is? Where can I find that?
Uh,
I think you would not have set up that
thing or my system is saying that.
Can you Scroll down to monitoring?
Wondering, yeah.
Yeah yeah,
in this go to troubleshooting guides.
You may have to set up log analytics for
this.
So it'll throw a bunch of errors for you
right now. So if you go to auto vacuum,
yeah, so there are a bunch of errors.
So all these things here are like, yeah,
blockers. So if you see here.
Come down. Yeah, this one. So the one,
the query that I gave was picked from
here. Oh, I think you do have something.
OK, come down. Yeah.
Yeah,
the query for the first query I gave us
from this one.
So in our case the only option we had was
to give all these things to the customer
for them to debug from the screen and do
Yeah.
it on their own if you go to the top a
bit.
It looks like this server has something
that is holding it.
There is some long running transaction
there. Yeah,
this is what it comes and these are some
of those things that basically are
flowing from the telemetry and we are
trying to show.
OK.
Yeah,
looks like there's a logical replication
lag. No, I don't think so. OK.
Um, yeah.
No, I don't think so. There is any, yeah.
OK.
So this is the thing.
So what workbooks or what these
troubleshooting guides can do is show you
the things that are already there in the
system,
whereas for a customer to easily debug
Yeah.
and identify.
And we are also given them the
recommendation how to solve about it,
but they have to do on their own.
We don't do anything.
What PG durable can do is we could take
it a step further and start doing these
things for them.
This is what we don't have today.
We have a number of things that show the
things to customer,
but we don't have anything that could go
and implement it.
Yeah.
Got it. OK. So like,
I'll give you an example,
like I'll just turn around with your
thing, right? Like,
Yep.
so I think this is auto vacuum blocked,
right?
Yeah, yeah.
I just did the dashboard to MPG durable,
right? So like.
Yep.
I guess it's just a pipeline where it it
checks all the and then the user can I
Yeah.
guess have this running every X days or
if something gets hit you just run this
Good.
Go.
pipeline.
But I'm just what I'm just thinking is I
I'm just brainstorming here right?
Like if, if, if,
if there's a auto vacuum blocker.
Is the auto vacuum blocker.
I just don't know how the user goes from
'cause like aren't they like admin issues
No.
like when you want the right user to do
this like.
And I don't think mostly the the admin
user,
whoever is there there and would do it.
So should not be a problem to do it.
The broader question I think maybe we'll
get into is if we have to do this.
We are going to drop their slots or kill
their sessions.
Is it something that is acceptable to
them or not?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. Exactly.
So in PG durable is it possible for you
were showing me the multi step right?
Is it possible for us to put a manual
trigger somewhere saying that do you want
Yeah.
to continue?
Do you want to go and kill this?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You can add like a like a signal and you
can,
you can have like it can be running and
it'll be like, hey,
waiting for human signal and then they
Yeah.
just have to say yes or no or whatever.
Yeah, yeah.
So what we could do then is that Abe is
that it'll do like first step store into
those logs, everything.
Then the user can go and see what it is
showing. Then we can tell, hey,
these are the things they can go and
we'll check.
We can point them to workbooks,
whatever we have in our system, right.
They can always go and check there.
And then say, hey, now you want to do it,
we can do it for you.
That makes sense.
Because what my what I've seen based on
the experience, right,
they're very reluctant.
If we tell we handle for them in this
Yeah.
kind of things,
they want to see with their first-hand
Yeah.
experience it is not impacting something
at their side and then they want to do it.
So they're perfectly,
they're perfectly OK if we do or they
Got you. OK.
want scripts to do it that they want,
but they don't want us to do like
Yeah.
immediately after Step 3, Step 4,
they we are doing it without them looking
into having the control of the things,
right?
Gotcha.
That's a good one. So OK,
so let me see if I'm just like I'm
basically like let me just duplicate this.
Basically what? Yeah,
So all, yeah, so yeah.
after step one you have like a please
confirm or double check log and then say,
yeah, this is great.
We resolve lockers for them.
OK.
Yeah.
OK, got it.
And the the same pattern identifies
itself after step one, yeah.
Yeah, because vacuuming is a low,
low vacuuming should not be a problem.
We can tell that, hey, this is step one,
these are the blockers.
OK.
You tell us we can resolve for you and we
can vacuum it so they can.
It's during the business day.
It's not impacting anything.
They'll come in the evening and then
enable it and then we'll resolve it and
do the vacuum for them.
out of business also.
That's one way of looking at it.
Do you?
Would you also think the customers want
it scheduled?
Like cause if I say yes,
would you think people want it done right
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes,
that would be a real great addition, Abby,
away or like yes,
but do it after business hours, OK.
because I have worked with multiple
customers who over the weekend or before
the start of business hours do vacuuming
on servers.
Stopping entire workload because their
workload is like a nine to five kind of a
Gotcha.
workload.
So what they do every day morning they
Gotcha. Gotcha.
schedule something 7 to 9 and then the
workload starts.
Yeah.
So some of them it would it would give
them no it would give them.
It would cut their time also.
They could just schedule it and then
decide, hey,
every day vacuum it if there are no
Yeah.
blockers. For example,
blocker is some scenario.
We are thinking what happens if there is
no blocker in the system at all.
All we are saying is we'll go and vacuum
for them every day at this time,
Yeah.
which is which is nice to have, right?
That's the end goal anyways.
Wait, you can't do that.
We don't have a a vacuum on the schedule
today.
They have to use PG Cron. That's why,
yeah.
Oh, they have to use PG. OK.
So what they do Abe is we do have auto
vacuum daemon,
but in some scenarios the workload is
such that that they would need additional
Yeah.
help.
I have worked with many customers who do
OK.
that.
OK.
Outside of vacuum vacuum will do in
business hours. Out of business hours,
Is the challenge is the challenge partly
to that that that you sort of you have to
manual vacuum, yeah.
maintain an open session to the to to
Postgres while you do these things and
Cron allows you not to do that as PG
durable has the same ability right that
you don't have to do things you know.
With with the session open.
Mm.
You submit the job and then you can walk
away. Find out later how it went.
Yeah, yeah,
that that that would give perfect.
You know, we can give tell people, hey,
you can go and schedule it it if there is
a blocker,
what do you want to do with the blocker?
If you tell and and schedule it,
it'll kill that blocker and then it'll
vacuum for it or in a day for a
particular day there is no blocker at all.
And you want to do a vacuum,
we'll do vacuum for it.
If you schedule it,
it'll check for the blockers and do it.
The other third scenario that is there
Abe related to 1 billion threshold, right,
Yeah.
50% wrap around risk, wrap around risk.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, my my computer is crashing.
That for example,
yeah that for example I was in a Walmart
workshop few days back like few weeks
back.
This was what we discussed for two days
because they had couple of servers that
Oh.
went to wrap around because of blockers.
Yeah.
And then they had to do, you know,
they had to effectively.
The server was down for X number of time.
They were. They wanted to know what to do,
how to solve those problems and all.
Basically at a very high level.
This is what we told him.
You need to monitor.
You need to see 1 billion transactions
and all these things.
Then you need to act upon yourself.
Point right.
So all we are doing here is everything
Yeah.
doing for them and if it crosses 1
billion there is no blocker all vacuum
will run and reduce those transactions.
Yeah.
Check and I'm just gonna put your your
some of your comments. That's it.
Yeah.
I I like this. OK user.
And even scheduling was a good one.
Abhay add that one also somewhere
Oh, Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
schedule scheduling this giving that
option to user right?
Either they do it then and that itself or
they giving the option them to schedule
would be a very good one because these
things keep coming up.
Yeah, so I'm just wanna let me see.
So this is adding then it gets resolved.
Same thing and then this gets scheduled
for the auto runs.
Are those like how do you like?
How do you envision customers to accept
that?
Cause the first pushback you said
customers would have is like, hey,
Hmm.
I wanna see what happened.
So are you saying when there's no
Yeah.
blockers like I just run back in, OK.
Yes, we could.
That is why we could put a scheduler
there.
That would give them the saying that I
OK.
don't want to run during the business
hours,
but I'll schedule every day night at
12:00.
Let let the vacuum do the do it vacuum
for me once.
So specifically only schedule when there
are no blockers.
Yes, we could do that.
Yeah, I I just this is OK.
Yeah,
I think with this orchestration it would
give us that that one also, right?
Like kind of an if else loop we can put
right in the orchestration. Yeah,
I got your point when you asked that.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
There's they're branching.
So we could do that then then that would
be a good one to do also.
Yeah.
I'm curious to know what what is it about,
you know,
And.
like what is it about PG durable that's
better than PG or different from PG Cron?
Like what? Why? You know,
are we talking about stuff that could
have been done with PG Cron anyway or
right? Maybe,
maybe this makes it easier to do.
No, we are doing a bunch of steps here,
right Pino,
PG Cron we can we we have to schedule
different jobs all we are here.
OK, OK.
It's like an orchestration, right?
I'm seeing for there is a blocker or not,
whether I have reached 1 billion
transactions or not.
By their conditions and yes, yes,
absolutely.
Yeah, the only thing it we can,
we don't have to put these checks and
balances.
The only thing is we'll get a lot of
pushback from customers saying that all
this is good, but I want to do,
I want to see everything before anything
I give a go ahead.
Mm mhm, right.
It has that signal like that that that
ability to get a signal from.
Yeah, so we yeah. So if you tell them,
hey, this is going to tell you,
find you the things and tell you where
the issues are, you go and check.
If you are good, we can handle it for you.
Yeah. And then where does,
where do you pipe in notifications, right?
Got it. OK.
Like like how would I trigger or accept
like is where does that happen today?
Uh, when a customer goes and accepts it.
Yeah, exactly.
So what they do is that they check for
number of tables that were vacuumed
during that period.
Like if ultimately you're vacuuming,
right? So there we go to for example,
please stat user tables and see when the
Yeah.
last vacuum happened.
So they vacuum just now on.
That's how it is.
The second check is whether if there was
Yeah.
a bloat on the server and that bloat went
away like earlier it was 50%.
Yeah.
Now it is like 1% or 2% whatever.
So that's the second check.
Third check is like number of transaction
IDs come down like in the case of wrap
around right from 1 billion to whatever
it is like.
Million, 200 million. Then it's like,
yeah, we whatever vacuum did,
it accomplished its goal.
Yeah,
but how does the customer get that
notification?
Is do we push notifications to them? Oh,
They do manually. No, they do.
They check manually.
manually. OK, OK.
So actually that's also a good point.
Maybe at the end of this one, right,
we can add that one also.
We actually put that one.
I can update this doc in fact.
So I I know that.
We have done the vacuum,
but is it successful or not?
We can give them a result saying that hey,
this many tables were vacuumed because of
this at this time like you know.
Yeah,
the reason why I'm saying that is because
Uh.
there are two places, right?
Like in #2 where we say users can accept
or approve changes,
like how do we tell them? Is it an e-mail?
Yeah, yeah.
Is it a notification on Azure portal?
I.
I don't know what is best.
There's a lot of complexity there,
but I don't know.
Yeah.
I'm just I'm asking if we already had
something today.
No, we don't have anything like that.
Maybe in the orchestration only they
could,
we could store somewhere the results also
of that run.
Yeah, we can. We can. It's just,
it's just like.
And we can surface it somehow,
somewhere away that if we have some
tables somewhere,
we can always surface it if they wanted.
Surfaces how like surfaces via Azure
portal OK.
Oh, I don't know portal.
Not many people will have access to
portal.
That's another problem we have with
OK.
putting too many things in the portal.
So we may have to think,
I think.
but having a end goal like what is the
result of that would be a good one to add.
Yeah.
I I'll.
I can put give those queries to be
offline now.
There might be two or three queries every
time you have to run and tell them, hey,
this is what it is looking like.
Yeah, yeah, no.
Like what we're thinking is we're
integrating with the VS code team.
So in my head,
Hmm.
I'm just thinking like if you're a DBA
persona, right? And you have PG.
Then we can give them a.
If this is going to VS code then it is
much easier that way.
I think we can give them a screen,
Yeah.
a tab somewhere that would just give the
output of this one and something like
Yeah.
some time series range.
Someone goes and puts the time series,
say today what happened,
yesterday what happened and they can
start seeing the logs.
Yeah, that's, yeah, something like that.
It's like, hey, we found this,
Something like that we can give them.
you wanna review it?
They click it and it's like, hey,
you want us to run it now? Yes. OK,
next time if we don't find any errors,
do you want us to auto vacuum? Sure,
why not? And then it's like.
Yeah.
And then they see a screen of all the
pipelines running. It's like, oh,
you have these pipelines running all the
time, OK.
Exactly, exactly.
That would actually be good. Yeah,
that would be good. Yeah.
If it is VS code,
then we have bunch of things we could do.
I was thinking our observed portal.
Yeah, yeah. No, I I don't know where.
I'm just like,
We are scored.
We are scored would be a good one to add,
I guess we had a discussion this morning
with him.
but as well portal we have to think.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know.
What are your thoughts, Pinat? Again,
like I I'm,
I don't know what the technical here.
I'm just like,
I'm just brainstorming to see what we can
do. Obviously there are timeline issues,
but seems like a pretty cool use case for
Dbas and it'll solve a lot of, you know.
Kind of ease of use issues that
performance teams already seen.
I I I like it a lot.
I mean I I think the VS code delivery
mechanism is so is so easy right in terms
of just like you develop,
we're developing the extension and VS
code together.
It just it makes it makes things easier
in terms of like bringing that out.
We might have to you know talk about some
details like what is this like an extra
extension or some or some stored
procedures and some some whatever what is
Yeah.
Oh, I'm sorry.
the delivery of this is additional
functionality with on top of PG durable
but but but I like that pairing of right
like the VS code extension could have
Yeah.
yeah yeah I mean.
You could do the workflow entirely there.
Hey Pino, So what Abe was looking right?
Is it something that I can set up?
Uh.
Can you give me one more time that link?
I want to set it up and see if something
I can play around a bit.
Yeah, so you have two options, Sarat.
One is so. So first of all,
currently we're shipping PG Dorable only
to Horizon TV that go ahead, yeah.
Oh, sure, sure.